[Music]
if you were to place all the rice
consumed each year on one side of a
scale and every person in the world on
the other the scale would tip heavily
towards Rice's favor this beloved crop
contributes over 20% of the calories
consumed by humans each year Korean bibm
Bop Nigerian jellof Indian buyani
Spanish Baya and countless other
culinary masterpieces all began with
rice so how did this humble grain end up
in so many
Cuisines the roots of rice go back
thousands of years to when early farmers
in Asia Africa and South America each
independently domesticated the crop
first came Asian Rice which many plant
geneticists believe originated in what's
now China over 10,000 years ago nomadic
hunters in the region began Gathering
and eating seeds from a weedy grass then
around 9,000 years ago they started
planting these seeds prompting nomadic
Hunters to settle into farming
communities with each Harvest Growers
selected and replanted seeds from the
rice plants that please them most like
those with bigger and more plentiful
grains or aromatic flavors over
Millennia thousands of varieties of
Asian Rice emerged a relative of the
same weedy grass was also domesticated
in Africa around 3,000 years ago today
its growth is mostly limited to West
Africa South American Growers also also
domesticated rice around 4,000 years ago
though the crop was lost after the
arrival of Europeans Asian Rice however
spread widely and is now a Cornerstone
of diet and culture in Asia and Beyond
in India and Nepal many Hindus mark an
infants transition to solid foods with a
ceremony known as Ana prashan where the
baby tastes rice for the first time in
Japan rice is so Central to diets that
the word Gohan means both cooked rice
and meal the global expansion of rice
cultivation was only possible because
the plant can grow in many climates from
tropical to temperate as a semi-aquatic
plant rice happily grows in submerged
soils many other crops can't survive in
standing water because their root cells
rely on air within soil to access oxygen
but rice plants have air channels in
their roots that allow oxygen to travel
from the leaves and stems to the
submerged tissues traditionally Growers
plant rice in Patty Fields flat land
submerged under as much as 10 cm of
water throughout the growing season this
practice returns high yields since many
competing weeds can't hack it in the
Aquatic environment but the technique is
also water intensive rice covers 11% of
global crop land but uses over a third
of the world's irrigation water this
form of rice production also pumps out a
surprising amount of greenhouse gas
emissions flooded fields are the perfect
breeding grounds for microorganisms
known as methanogens these microscopic
life forms thrive in environments
lacking oxygen because they evolved when
the earth contained little of this gas
methanogens are the only organisms known
to produce methane a greenhouse gas 25
times more potent than carbon dioxide at
trapping heat in the atmosphere cows for
example are Infamous for burping out
methane due to methanogens in their
stomachs in a flooded Patty field
methanogens set to work eating away at
organic material in the submerged soil
and multiplying rapidly all the while
releasing copious amounts of methane the
result rice cultivation contributes
around 12% of human-caused methane
emissions each year but there's good
news rice doesn't actually need to grow
in continuously flooded patties
researchers and Growers are exploring
Water Management strategies that can cut
the methane while keeping the yield one
promising technique is known as
alternate wetting and drying Growers
periodically let the water level drop
which keeps methanogen growth in check
alternate wetting and drying can cut
water use by by 30% and methane
emissions by 30 to 70% without impacting
yield greenhouse gases come from many
sometimes unexpected places making rice
growing more sustainable is just one of
the many challenges we'll need to face
to avoid catastrophic warming today many
rice Growers still flood Fields all
season long changing Millennia old
practices requires a major mindset shift
but going against the grain could be
just what we need to keep our planet
healthy and our bows
full want to know what you and your
community can do right now to help cut
greenhouse gas emissions visit
ed.ted.com
earthschool to check out our action
guide find out what role you can play or
watch this video to learn about the pros
and cons of tree planting
[Music]